# Selection System : C++ Project
Simple model giving academical training positions to students based on standard criterions, using Gale-Shapley's algorithm. Inspired by the French selection system Parcoursup for higher academical training.

This project is an implementation of a selection algorithm for students and trainings post-high school. This project is inspired by French selection system Parcoursup (successor of "Admission Post-Bac") who uses Gale-Shapley's algorithm to aim the same goals as this project. 

Parcoursup's database and criterions are more elaborated than this project, but social criterions and the opacity of the implementation of the selection algorithm have been under heavy criticizing from the government's political opposition and from the students themselves since its creation in 2018. However, contrary to the global belief, the code and documentation linked to Parcoursup's algorithms are open-source, available in this GitHub project: https://gitlab.mim-libre.fr/parcoursup/algorithmes-de-parcoursup

Thus, this project aims to build a simple model based on social criterions (selection system based only on the grades of the student, behavior penalties, knowledge of personal issues unrelated to school,...) that neglect the actual (as of 2024) context in universities (limited availability in training due to the high number of candidates, lack of financial investment in research and university training, etc). The project also aims to analyze the way the Gale-Shapley is implemented, as there is optimality only on one side for the employers (i.e the university trainings in Parcoursup's scheme) but not for the candidates who can choose (i.e, the students).

This is the second C++ project of its creator (Alan Lebreux, 2024).

To build to the project, go to the build directory:

```
cd build
```

and build the project using the standard cmake commands:

```
cmake ..
make
```

Right now, test executables can be found and runned in the build/tests repository. This behavior can, should and will be optimised using a sharper CMake configuration.

Documentation for the project is generated using doxygen and can be generated by running the following command in the build directory:

```
make doc
```

and can be visualised in the doc directory of the project.

A UML file is present in the uml folder and generated using PlantUML for better visualisation of the class hierarchy of the project. **Please acknowledge the fact that this UML diagram is not quite exact, as the author doesn't (yet) have full knowledge of UML conventions, in particular in the types of arrows that should be used as information in such diagrams.**

# Current state of the project

The Gale-Shapley's algorithm runs on a toy example that can be found on the French Wikipedia's webpage that describes the algorithm, in the section "Optimalité de la solution". Please run

```
./test_selection_system
```

to observe this behavior.

Further toy and more complex examples will be produced. The first goal is to study and display differences in the produced solutions depending on the roles of the actors (students and trainings) in Gale-Shapley's algorithm. The next step is to study the Parcoursup documentation to establish the additional constraints that the algorithm takes into account (such as the student's location prior to entering university, his/her financial situation, personal issues, ...). In the long term, a user interface that allows better input integration in the selection system and better data visualisation may be explored for this project.


